---
layout: post
title: To infinity and beyond!
---

I have absolutely no idea why I wrote that subject, it just popped into
my head :-)

anyways, things are going really well right now, just thought i’d let
the 2 people who read this blog know… work is good, stressful but good,
spiritual life is seeing growth, family life is wonderful, and things
with Nat and I are progressing, with some actual direction…

Lets see, as far as work goes I’m the only tech at SabreTech now, Josh
and Billy are both working full time in Jackson now. They still work for
us but we’ve got them subbed out to a company full time. I believe we
also hired another old friend to work up there too… I’ve been learning
all kinds of new crazy stuff, from building phone systems (pbx style
baby) to programming even more. This month was a record month for
SabreTech, in both sales and service!

Starting Jan 1st I began reading through the Bible, front to back… I’ve
stayed up with my reading and I can’t even begin to explain what a
blessing its been. I’ve also started meeting with my dad on a weekly
basis for prayer, fellowship, Bible study, and we’re also doing a video
series called “Living by the Book”… I start discovery classes at church
next week and I’m really excited… oh yeah, next week is Souper Bowl
Sunday at church too… way cool…

Tina is still in Florida at school and doing well. She has been
experiencing some stressful times, but from the sounds of it God has
been giving her just what she needs to make it through each day, and she
is growing because of that. Mom and dad are doing well, Mom is in
classes again and working hard to learn spanish, and Dad is working hard
at the Manor and in taking new steps to prepare for Argentina… The
elders have decided to realign some of his responsibilities so he has
more time to help Mom study and time to counsel me… So as far as family
goes, Praise the Lord.

Ah, and how about Natalie and I you ask :-) Natalie and I are about to
start courting. Tonight Mr. and Mrs. Evans are meeting with my parents
to discuss their roles in this process. We are going to be looking at
the Bible and some books written by believers and we are going to
address the serious issues involved with Marriage and through this
process discern whether it is God’s will for Natalie and I to get
married, and find out where we both are on issues relating to leadership
in the family, raising kids, not to mention dealing with sexual issues
and past sin that will affect our marriage if this goes that direction…
So everyone who reads this blog (you two know who you are) you can
definately be praying for us as we proceed…

To all my loyal readers (hehe), God Bless
