---
layout: post
title: My Rig
---

Not that anyone cares, but I thought I’d post my current computer setup,
hardware and software…

### The Hardware

I’m the kinda guy that enjoys the bleeding edge (first mac was a 867mhz
pb), so five days after Apple released the new
[Macbook](http://www.apple.com/macbook/macbook.html) I had my company
order one for me. I got a stock [black
Macbook](http://store.apple.com/1-800-MY-APPLE/WebObjects/AppleStore.woa/6344003/wo/pQ4GzSFdUzhy2yFxQOmq26OsQGg/2.?p=0)
from Apple, and ordered 2gb of ram and a 120gb sata laptop drive from a
third party retailer (can’t remember who)…

The day after the Macbook arrived my memory and harddrive showed up and
I installed them. Needless to say, I will never own a Mac with less than
2gb of ram after experiencing the difference between 512mb and 2gb.

This computer is fast, really really fast, and the 120gb of harddrive
made it more than comfortable for having my entire music/photos/movies
collection on my laptop, instead of just my desktop machine at home.

The [iSight](http://www.apple.com/macbook/isight.html) camera is really
nice too, although I haven’t really started using it for video
conferencing yet.

I love having the black Macbook, but I don’t have anything against the
white ones, they are really slick too. The black one does tend to show
any grease transferred from your hands, which could drive someone with
<span class="caps"><span class="caps">OCD</span></span> nuts.

### Software

Well first off, I’m running <span class="caps">OS X 10</span>.4.8 now.

In addition I bought [Parallels](http://www.parallels.com) and I’m
running [Windows XP
Pro](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/pro/default.mspx) and
[Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com) . I use
[VirtueDesktops](http://virtuedesktops.info) to keep everything clean
and easily switch between my OS’s. It is really a thing of beauty and I
love to show it off to my clients and of course other geeks (I had it
all setup when I went to “RailsConf”http://railsconf.org , so that was
fun, being that only a few people out of the 100+ people with Macbooks
had the same setup).

I use [iTunes, iPhoto, iMovie, and iDVD](http://www.apple.com/ilife/)
quite regularly. I gave [Apple
Mail](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/mail/) a spin but ended up
back with the [Gmail](http://gmail.com) web interface as my preferred
mail client.

For coding I use [Textmate](http://www.macromates.com) and <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">IMHO</span></span> there is nothing
better.

In addition to these I use [Gcal](http://chip.cuccio.us/projects/gcal)
(a webkit based Google Calendar client), [Firefox
1.5.0.7](http://mozilla.com) ,
[Safari](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/safari/) ,
[Stickies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stickies) , [NetNewsWire
Lite](http://www.newsgator.com/NGOLProduct.aspx?ProdId=NetNewsWire&ProdView=lite)
, Terminal, and a handful of other apps.

### Problems/Issues

I’ll finish this post off by mentioning some of the hardware issues I’ve
experienced with my macbook.

The first was an inconvenient problem with the gloriously large
trackpad. Due to its large size, and the poor (i hate to say poor, but
how else can i describe it?) trackpad button design, the button would
only work if I clicked within an inch of the center, this after two
weeks of use. I found a nice little remedy (via google) [using some
origami](http://ibloggedthis.com/2006/06/29/an-origami-solution-to-the-apple-macbook-trackpad-squishy-button-problem/)
, and it hasn’t been an issue since.

The last and worst issue I can remember is when I got the [random
macbook shutdown
problem](http://forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=213531) . Four
weeks after I started using my macbook it started shutting down whenever
it felt like, fortunately it seemed to do it more at night and not
during work hours. But after a few days it was doing it all the time. I
called Apple and started going thru their annoying diagnostics,
installing the factory ram, installing the factory harddrive,
reinstalling the OS, etc etc. Finally I got an <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> and sent it in. <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">BUT</span></span>, it tool 16 day for them to get it back
to me, which was extremely annoying, especially after being assured it
would be back in 7 days.
