---
layout: post
title: Numbers 1-3 and Exodus 40
---

I decided to start doing more on my personal devotions, and the OT has
been nagging at the back of my mind, so I flipped to Numbers and started
meditating on it… Some interesting stuff, and it ended up taking me back
to Exodus for some backup reading, so a good start all in all…

**Numbers 1:1** – the Israelites have a portable temple, called the
“Tent of Meeting” and God speaks to Moses there… I need to look into
this more, and what is the Tabernacle?

1:2-3 – God likes numbers, there seems to be some sort of divine order
in creation, God is precise and numbers are a language he uses to teach
us how perfect He is…

1:20-40 – Wow, a whole lot of counting… again, precision…

1:47-53 – God even has chosen people inside his “Chosen People” to
handle the Tabernacle.

**Exodus 40**

Note: There seems to be an emphasis on Moses obeying the Lord, “as the
Lord commanded him” appears 8 times in this chapter.

40:2-15 – God gives Moses specific instructions, so that he can obey,
and bring glory to God.

40:16-33 – Moses obey’s, on every last little detail.

40:34-38 – God comes down and fills the portable temple, and He gives a
sign to tell them when to move and when to stay. Also, remember only
Aaron & his sons can enter the “Tent of Meeting”, as God had commanded…
(<span class="caps">NOTE</span>: actually God said no one else could
even approach it or they would be put to death).

Finally, in Numbers 1 we see God give Aaron and his sons helpers, the
Levites…

Numbers 2-3\
In chapters 2 and 3 we see God layout the camping arrangements and
responsibilities for the tribes of Israel. Moses obeyed. We also see why
God chose the Levites to help with the Tabernacle. They were to take the
place of the 22,273 firstborn of Israel that God wanted for himself… But
there were only 22,000 Levites that were eligible for service to God,
and because God is an exact God he requred payment for the last 273,
even having Moses collect gold of a certain proportion to the 273 so
that the debt could be satisfied…
