---
layout: post
title: Road Trip - with my boy j
---

Jeremy (my boy j) called last night and we talked for over an hour… It
was awesome to hear how things are going for him now that he’s back with
his rents…

He is working two jobs. The first is construction with one of the guys
from the church he goes to… The second job is a waiting job at a family
restuarant…

God is teaching him a lot right now. Jer’s had a rough last year, and
finally when he hit bottom he decided to go live in an atmosphere he
could actually grow in… Now that he is there God is breaking him down,
teaching him not to rely on his own strengths, but focus upward… Many
little small setbacks here and there can really get a person into a
depressive state focusing on themselves… But it seems to me Jer is
looking at everything as an opportunity… He went and worked 6 hours last
night and because of some mixups left with less than 10 bucks, barely
enough to cover the gas it cost to get there and back… But when I talked
to him he was totally cool and relaxed and not worried about the little
stuff.

Him and I are planning on getting together in Florida early to mid July
and we’re going to road trip back with a bunch of my sisters stuff…

I’m really excited :-)\
…nuf said

P.S. update on the van, its fixed (again!) and God provided everything
needed to get it fixed. I am still looking for another vehicle, so if
you see anything in the \$1500 to \$2000 range shoot me an email
jonmagic (~~at~~) gmail d0t com
