---
layout: post
title: ATT is not my friend
---

When we bought SabreTech, Brad and I had our phone service changed and
found out a nice little policy of <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">ATT</span></span> (<span class="caps">SBC</span> at the
time)… We were paying for a static IP address, which means our internet
address won’t change on a day to day, year to year basis… But it turns
out, if you make any kind of change to your account, dsl or regular
phone stuff, they assign you a new set of ip’s… This is a major pain for
a company like ours, so we’ve avoided making changes to our account
since then.

Until last month that is, when we had to have some of our phone stuff
fixed because <span class="caps"><span class="caps">ATT</span></span>
screwed it up (won’t go into details)… Anyways, when we called to have
this stuff fixed, we were assured our IP’s wouldn’t change…

Welcome Today, guess what I find when I get into work this morning… Our
internet is down, and I have a sneaking suspicion it is because they
changed our IP’s… I call <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">ATT</span></span> dsl tech support, and after they tested
the line I suggested they check what IP range I was assigned and sure
enough, they changed it… I was irate, and for once that produced results
(I never know which way to go with these things, play the nice guy, or
play the frustrated client)…

Thankfully, unlike last time, they were able to get us back up and
running within 30 minutes (i had to stay on hold the entire time). This
whole thing just burns me though, I’m tired of working with large corps
that can’t tell their head from their tail, and unfortuntely there are
no other options around here… So I guess you just have to pay the price,
and lose several hours of your life a year for stupid stuff like this…
So if anyone ever tells you service x only costs y dollars from large
corp z, make sure you figure in the time you’ll have dealing with their
stupidity…
