---
layout: post
title: Is stress sin?
---

I managed to stress myself out today…

I had been doing really good thru-out everything the last few months,
from going to Jail to cancelling my wedding, to getting my life back in
order, to finding out how much I owed the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">IRS</span></span> for the money I didn’t take home last
year…

But then today I found out my home loan wasn’t finished yet, the bank
wanted <span class="caps"><span class="caps">MORE</span></span>
paperwork (I’ve faxed them almost a hundred pages of crap now, from tax
forms to bank statements, etc etc), and I started to doubt that it would
happen. Then I started thinking about closing on the house and how the
owners want to close by next Tuesday and basically my mind went down a
serious rathole, filled with doubts and worry. This led to stress which
led to me making myself physically sick (heartburn type symptoms, you
know what I’m talking about).

I finally had to leave the office and take a cruise to cool off a bit
(take my mind off of things) and about 10 minutes into the ride I
suddenly realized how stupid I was being! I’ve been redeemed, none of
this matters at all, its all in God’s hands anyways. It took me an hour
and a half to get my mind straight again, put my trust in Him, and get
myself straightened out. I have nothing to worry about, the only real
thing that matters is Christ died on the cross for me (for every sinner)
and I’ve decided to accept His gift and live my life for Him and not
myself.

So then I started thinking about how often I used to be stressed (used
to be an awful lot) and I came to the conclusion that being stressed is
caused by sin… The title of this post isn’t quite clear, because stress
itself is not a sin (<span class="caps">IMHO</span>), but what leads to
it is. When I doubt God, when I try and control things on my own, and
bear the burden of responsibility by myself rather than taking up my
cross, denying my old self, and acting out my salvation, then I am
sinning. God is in the details, I just need to be *moving* so He can
direct me. I’m really a lot better off now than I ever was, because
spiritually and physically I used to be just sitting around all the
time, and how is God supposed to direct you if you aren’t all ready
moving!?

Moral of the story? Not having stress will be a constant struggle, for
the rest of my life. I like being in control! But I know from personal
experience, from acting out what Jesus asks of us in Matthew 11:28-29
that everything will be all right…

“Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you
rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and
humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is
easy and my burden is light.”
