---
layout: post
title: Buffalo Technology, please redeem yourself
---

I’ve been eyeing the [Buffalo
Terastation](http://www.buffalo-technology.com/products/product-detail.php?productid=97)
for awhile now, lots of storage in a nice little package. So when the
opportunity to buy one came up, I jumped.

One of my clients needed a file storage / backup solution, and the
Terastation seemed to fit the bill. I found it for a great price (1TB
for 6 bills), punched in my credit card number, and 4 days later it was
in my hands.

I received the unit the middle of December, but we were so busy at
[SabreTech](http://www.sabretechllc.com) I scheduled the install for
after the first of the year. I did go ahead and set the unit up,
configured everything via the web interface, and tested it. I left in on
the bench for 24 hours running, and then logged in and shut it down,
everything seemed to be perfect.

Fast forward 3 weeks, when I go onsite and begin the setup for the
client. After plugging it in it did its Star Trek like flashy light
thing, then signaled that drives 2, 3, and 4 were either full or not
working. I logged into the web interface, and it said those drives were
not attached. So I shut it down and then started it back up; same thing.
Rinse and repeat, again, the same result… So I took it back to my
office, started it up and called tech support.

Fast forward 30 minutes, on hold, finally I get to talk to tech support.
They decide the controller must be the problem, as the likelihood of
three drives going bad at the same time was slim to none. So they put me
on hold and then forwarded me to the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> department. The <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> department took my info and said they
would email me instructions to do an advanced <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> (they ship me a new unit, I ship the old
one back in the same box the new one came in, and they provide the
shipping tag).

Two hours later I got the email and forwarded it to Brad. He had
problems getting the link to work, so I went ahead visited the link (no
problem on my computer), and printed the form we needed to fill out and
fax in. Brad filled in the form later that day, and the next day I took
it somewhere to fax it (we can’t fax long-distance from our office). I
faxed it, the fax machine printed out the receipt when it was done, and
I forgot about it… That was on Thursday the 11th of January.

Fast forward to this Monday (the 15th) when Brad asked if I had heard
anything from Buffalo on our <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> status. By this time we should have
received either an email saying our new unit was on its was, or at least
a confirmation that they had received our fax. I had nothing, so I
called their tech support number again, waited on hold 45 minutes,
finally got the tech, who forwarded to the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> department, who proceeded to tell me they
had not received my fax (great)… So I drove somewhere to use a fax
machine, faxed it twice (just to be sure), and then called Buffalo
again.

By this time I’m not really happy that I have to wait on hold twice each
time I call to talk to someone in the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> department, so after waiting 30 minutes
on hold to get a tech, and then another 15 minutes on hold to get
someone in <span class="caps"><span class="caps">RMA</span></span>, I’m
getting a bit hot under the collar. I asked the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">RMA</span></span> person whether they had received my fax,
they looked and said no. They asked what fax number I sent it to and
then told me that was the fax number for the accounting department.
After a little bit they figured out that advance <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">RMA</span></span> requests go to
accounting due to the credit card info that is needed, and then it is
forwarded to the <span class="caps"><span class="caps">RMA</span></span>
department. So they had me fax everything to a different number and
confirmed that they received it, said they would fast track it and I
should get an email within a day or two.

This morning I asked Brad if he had heard from Buffalo, and no was the
answer. So this afternoon I called <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">AGAIN</span></span>, waited on hold for 30 minutes and
finally got a tech, who once <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">AGAIN</span></span> forwarded me to to the <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">RMA</span></span> department. The girl
was very nice as I explained all that had transpired, and took care to
read everything they had on their computers, and basically told me they
had no idea why it hadn’t shipped out (they did say something about
their inter-departmental computer systems taking 24-48 hours to update,
what is that about?). Then they promised someone would call me by the
end of the business day to let me know where things were at.

Well, the end of the business day has come and gone, and I will never
buy Buffalo again, even if they fix this… I know I titled the article
with some sense of hope, but by the time I finished writing this, I
realized I just don’t have the time to work with companies like this.

…nuf said
