---
layout: post
title: The importance of being earnest
---

( not to be confused with [the
play](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Importance_of_Being_Earnest) )

Today was one of those “long” days, but all in all it was quite amazing…
I got up at 5:30 this morning to go meet with some christian brothers of
mine and had a God filled wonderful time of fellowship. I cherish these
moments and literally came to tears this morning while meeting with them
when we spoke of my eminent move. I also bought a house today, well, I
filled out a ton of paperwork, for all I know I might have bought a fire
truck… I worked onsite for 5+ hours, deployed the website Dan and I have
been working on for months (on top of an nginx/mongrel/rails stack,
configured to use ssl), and did a ton of other things. This evening Nat
and I had a wonderful dinner with my fam and then took a walk for an
hour.

It used to be I would come home from a day like this and all I could
think about was having a beer and relaxing (mind you, not at my parents
house). God has changed my heart though. Everything I did today I did
for His glory and wow did the day go easily!

So, the news… As you know if you read my blog, I’m getting married
August 2nd in Florida… Since that post the Lord has provided a house in
Elkhart Indiana, two blocks from their hospital (hopefully Nat gets a
job there someday!). Doing the paperwork today, deciding <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">FOR</span> <span
class="caps">SURE</span></span> that I’m moving away from my comfort
zone, would have been a nightmare to me just months ago. But now I
couldn’t feel better. For the first time in my life I’m giving it all
up, well, as best a saved sinner can do…

My title for this post refers to two things, the first being that I had
to send “earnest” money to get the house Natalie and I wanted, and I
just thought that it was kinda funny. The second, and more important
reason, is from my devotions this last week. In Matthew 11:28 Jesus
tells us “Come to me”. I am learning more everyday that the more I come
to Him, and put on His yoke instead of the yoke of this world, the
easier it gets to do anything. As I come to Him He changes the desires
of my heart to match His Will, so life changing decisions, whether to
stay or to go, whether to do this or do that, become infinitely easier.
All I have to do is follow His command “Come to me”. I don’t need to
stress and deliberate indefinitely, I focus on Christ and the rest falls
into place.

Prior to finding this verse (again) I ran across James chapter 4. I was
in the middle of making plans to move and I read verse 13 and 14, “Come
now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town
and spend a year there and trade and make a profit – yet you do not know
what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that
appears for a little time and then vanishes.” <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">WOW</span></span>, I read that and I was like <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">CRAP</span></span>! am I doing the right
thing? Thankfully thru my devotions the Matthew verse came to light the
next morning and I was able to refocus and let God change me, show me
what desires to hold on to and run with.

This is a disjointed post I know… I just thought I would offload my
brain into a blog post before I lost it all, I’ll try and do better next
time.

…nuf said
