---
layout: post
title: The car that wasn't broken
---

Saturday I had barely returned home to Indiana (from MI) when Natalie
called me. She was leaving Target and Kohls in Goshen and wanted to know
what I was up to. About a minute into the conversation she said “crap,
gotta go, the car just died…” A few minutes later she called back, the
car was dead, in the parking lot.

So like any good husband I suited up and headed that direction. She had
gone on to shopping in Target (per my command/request) and it took me a
good 15min to find her because her cellphone refuses to work in any
department store.

Finally found her, got the keys, and headed out there. Her car (a sky
blue 92 Toyota Celica) fired right up (after I checked the obvious
stuff, like oil, etc), but as soon as I started to accelerate out of the
parking spot it died. I opened the door to hear a loud hissing sound.

I’ll be the first to admit, I know virtually nothing about cars. Ask me
almost any computer question and I’ll be able to answer, but ask me
about the mechanics of a car and unless google can help me, I’m in
trouble.

Well anyways, I gave up, figuring it was something bad like a vacuum
hose or fuel pump.

Here is where things get interesting. Later that night I had it towed
(thanks Shorty!) and we followed the tow truck to the repair shop he
recommended. While driving behind the car Nat said, “doesn’t it look
like the exhaust is plugged?” Sure enough, it was stuffed with ice and
snow. This is where she fessed up to backing into a snow pile while
leaving her parking spot at the shopping center.

I didn’t have a hammer or blow torch handy, so I went ahead and had
Shorty leave the car at the shop, and then first thing this morning
(Monday) I stopped at the shop and ended up helping the guys push the
car into the shop. They had already peeked at it and noticed the exhaust
pipe, so when I mentioned it they were like “yup” and figured that was
it.

I stopped back by an hour later, and they had used a torch on it, and
sure enough it fired right up and ran fine…

Moral of the story: Know the <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">WHOLE</span></span> story and sometimes the clues will jump
right out at ya :-)
