---
layout: post
title: Where I "grew" up
---

[Mom](http://kimfromthesouth.blogspot.com/2008/12/i-am-exhausted-par-tay-animal.html)
tagged me in the Picture Tag game sweeping the nation right now (lol) so
I guess I better do it :-)

The rules of the Picture Tag game:

1.  Go to the 4th folder in your computer where you store your pictures.
2.  Pick the 4th picture in that folder.
3.  Explain the picture.
4.  Tag 4 people to do the same.

So, I use a macbook, which means i run osx, which means all my photos
are stored in a iPhoto archive file, <span class="caps"><span
class="caps">BUT</span></span>, thankfully I use my Pictures folder for
other stuff too, so I had a 4th folder, and a 4th picture, etc. This
particular picture isn’t that great, but the stuff I can tell you about
the material in the picture could fill a book.

I promise not to write a book here (I’d get exhausted by the end of the
second page) but the story I will tell will give you some insights into
where I grew to become a man.

This picture was taken in the foyer at my old church home, [Countryside
Bible Church](http://www.cbcjonesville.org), and those three gentlemen
are my brothers (in Christ). From left to right there is, Jay, John, and
Craig.

I’ll talk about the church for a bit and then tell you about those three
I mentioned above. I don’t remember what year my parents started taking
us to Countryside, but I do remember it was the third or fourth church
we’d attended since we’d moved to MI in 1989. It didn’t take me long to
figure out this was a place I wanted to be, there were quite a few kids
my age, the sermons didn’t put me to sleep (I used to like to sleep a
lot during service) and I just felt like there was something special
there. I not only attended Sunday services (and Sunday school) but also
went to Awana on Wednesday nights during the school year. Mrs. Buehrer
helped me start memorizing verses while I was in Awana and I found I had
quite a knack for it, which later led me to get into Bible quizzing. I
also remember winning many a sword drill at Countryside, which meant I
had a lot of extra Bible’s around to give away.

When I was a small child I had asked the Lord to come into my life, but
I’m not sure I actually gave myself to him. I know thru my teenage years
and into college and afterwards, I had a long courtship with Satan that
nearly killed me. Just a couple years ago I asked the Lord to enter my
life again, and started learning what walking with Christ is like.

My family at Countryside grew me up the best they could, nourishing me,
encouraging, pushing, and disciplining. But ultimately it was an act of
God that brought me to Him. I know he used everyone of those people in
that family to do it, but He made sure I knew that only by and thru Him
was I to be saved.

So, on to Jay, John, and Craig! I don’t know Jay’s whole story, except
that he was saved later in life after many trials, loves the Lord, and
that God is still working in him to this day. I’ve known John and his
wife Loretta since we started going to Countryside. John loves seeking
Truth. You could find him at every Bible study, asking tough questions,
playing devil’s advocate, and sometimes being ornery, but always loving
the Lord. Craig is a miracle. Craig’s son Josh started attending
Countryside with his girlfriend at the time many years ago, when I was
still 15 or 16. Josh and I become friends fairly quickly due to our
common ground, we were both geeks. When Josh got saved a couple years
after he came to Countryside, he started praying earnestly for his
parents. Soon after his mother started coming to church (my memory of
these events is not perfect, so please correct me on details if
necessary) and got saved, and a year or two or three after that Craig
started coming to church and after awhile gave his life to the Lord.

Now I said Craig is a miracle. I say that because God took a man with a
hard heart, someone who denied God, distrusted those who knew God, the
last person on earth you would see humble himself, and turned him
around. When Craig came to know the Lord there was a change. Yes we all
still have our rough edges, its not like we are pristine beings
overnight, and we all continue to make mistakes, but if you had met
Craig 10 years ago, and then met him again now, you wouldn’t know it is
the same person.

I thank God everyday for the men, and women he’s put in my life over the
years. There are many people that played key roles in my development
that I didn’t mention above, I’m sure there are many who prayed for me
that I don’t even know about, but the important thing is they are out
there.
