---
layout: post
title: Globe Gravity Feed Slicer
---

This is a post from my old blog that I've put up for solidarity. To this
day I still get emails from people inquiring about this model slicer :)

About a year before my parents headed to South America they started
getting rid of most of the stuff they’d accumulated over the years. One
of the last things they gifted to Natalie and I was a meat slicer that
looked pretty beat up and rusty, but had promise for anyone willing to
take the time to take it apart and restore it.

Its been sitting in my garage for several months now, collecting dust
and more rust. But last weekend as part of my meat smoking tradition
(started about 6 weeks ago, see older posts for fun smoking adventures)
I decided I wanted to thinly slice the meat I smoked, and I’m not very
good at thinly slicing meat with a knife, so I needed something more.

I dug the meat slicer out of the corner of the garage, carried it inside
(without putting out my back!) and got to work.

I started by taking it apart, a bit of a challenge the first time, but
I’m sure it will be easier in the future now that I know what I’m doing.

Here are all the individual parts laid out on my counter ready to go
into the dish washer. Oh yeah, i also used a tooth brush and baking soda
to scrub the rusty spots and remove about 90% of the rust.

While the parts were in the dish washer I started researching this
slicer. A Globe Gravity Feed Slicer, Model \#150, Serial \#223739.

Couldn’t find much on the internet, other than [Globe’s
Website](http://www.globeslicers.com/site/default.asp) , and that they
are located in Dayton Ohio. They did have contact info on their website
though, so I shot them an email asking if they could tell me more about
my slicer, and if they had any manuals or accessories for this thing
lying around in a warehouse.

When the parts were done in the dish washer I put it back together and
my did it look good!

I used it to slice my smoked beef shoulder roast that night (that’s a
whole other story, 14 hours on the smoker + 2 hours in the oven crazy)
and also sliced some cheese, onion, and bread. It works beautifully,
really quite cool. The only problem now is figuring out where to put it
:-)

One last thing: Globe did email me the following Monday, and explained
that the current owners bought Globe in 1993, and did not have anything
from this old model slicer around. They did tell me though that it was
manufactured in 1949.

…nuf said
