---
layout: post
title: Family Ribs
---

My cousin and his wife Karen (i.e. Family) are visiting us this weekend.
My cuz is an artist, an [ice sculptor](http://www.theicestudio.com/) and
he also [works with sand](http://img30.yfrog.com/i/woz.jpg/)! This is
the second year he has visited us while doing work up in Niles MI, but
the first time Karen has come to visit us. In fact, its the first time
Karen and my wife have met :-)

Anyways, one of the means I used to entice Karen to visit us, was my
incessant twittering about food, mwahahaha…

Tomorrow Natalie is working, and Stephan is exhausted, so we’ll miss
church this week while I get things ready for a big lunch.

I’ll probably be getting up at around 7am to start the smoker(s) (I’ve
converted my grill to a smoker too), and be occupied with that until
close to 2pm when Nat gets home from work, and hopefully the food is
ready. I’m making ribs! St Louis cut spare ribs and baby back ribs!

Karen was gracious enough to help me with the rib prep today. Cutting
the spare ribs down to St Louis style ribs and making the rub and then
getting all the racks and extra bits seasoned and in the fridge. We
(well me at least) had a great time hanging out, talking about
everything from their “<span class="caps">MONUMENTAL</span> <span
class="caps"><span class="caps">WEDDING</span></span>!” to when Natalie
and I were thinking about starting a family.

Since moving to Indiana Natalie and I have become very very close, but
we haven’t made too many friends, so it was really nice to talk to
someone else at length, and just hang out all day, being silly, going on
road trip with the dogs (four of them!) to see Stephan, and of course
working on the ribs together.

Well, I’ll make sure and post tons of pics tomorrow! I’m really looking
forward to this!
