---
layout: post
title: The Death of Free
---

I'm predicting the death of free in the next one or two years. You heard
it here first.

What the heck am I talking about? It used to be in our house that we
only used services on the internet that were free, flickr, delicious,
youtube, clearcheckbook, etc. In the past two years we have shifted to
using Flickr Pro, Pinboard, Vimeo Pro, ClearCheckBook Pro, Rdio, and
Netflix streaming, just to name a few.

Not only have we upgraded to the pro version of almost every internet
service we use, but we also usually don’t start using a new service
unless it has a paid version. Why? There are two primary reasons:

-   Companies charging money for their service are more likely to be
    around in 5 years.
-   I’m more likely to use a service if I’m paying for it.

The second reason is more interesting. It helps me weed out things in my
life that are wasting my time. If I’m not willing to pay for something
to use it, it most likely isn’t worthy of me spending any time to use
it.

I think my generation (and my gen’s kids) are finally starting to take
to heart the old saying “you get what you pay for”. Free stuff is for
the most part crap, has strings attached, and ends up being a time sink.

The Freemium model still works, but I think its on the way out. The
model that makes more sense to me is either just a great demo & paid
service, or a free trial that pushes to paid.

Of course the irony of this post is I’m not paying for
[Tumblr](http://tumblr.com), and I can’t seem to find anywhere where I
can give them money. However, I am choosing [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com)
as my micro-blogging platform over [Posterous](http://posterous.com)
because I think they are more likely to have a paid version in the
future.
