---
layout: post
title: What laptop to get?
---

[As you know](http://jonmagic.com/post/1611565836/hey-mom-i-got-a-job)
I’m taking a new job. New job means new laptop, and I’m having a
terrible time deciding what Mac to get. Just browsing Apple’s website I
fell in love with the new [13" Macbook
Air](https://www.apple.com/macbookair/), but the feedback on twitter has
been 50/50 for/against. Some think it works just fine as a development
machine, especially with the rockin ssd and 4GB of ram, but others worry
that going from <span class="caps">MBP</span> to the air will leave you
wanting.

I’ve been using a 15" 2.53 GHz Core 2 Duo Macbook Pro with 4GB of ram
for a few months now, and even it is not fast enough for me (looks like
its the hdd thats the bottleneck most of the time though).

I figured I needed some hands on, so I stopped by our [new Apple store
in Mishawaka](http://gowalla.com/spots/6424797) today and played with
several different models.

11" Macbook Air: this thing is tiny. I liked it except for the giant
surround around the screen, it makes the screen look way too small. Give
me a 1/2 to 3/4 bezel, not an inch an quarter!

13" Macbook Air: wow is she pretty, but it would definitely take some
getting used to. It has the same number of pixels as my 15" but crammed
into a 13" screen. I do love the weight to size ratio though. I couldn’t
really run any speed tests, but the thing was dang fast from what I
could tell.

15" Macbook Pro: I tried out one of the i5’s with 8GB of ram and and
<span class="caps">SSD</span> and it was screaming. The only downside is
the thickness/weight.

My conclusion at this moment in time is that Apple needs to make me a
15" Macbook Air! I don’t need an optical drive, I want tons of pixels,
but I also want that bigger 15" screen. Imagine a 15" with an i5
processor, still super thin, and a 10 hour battery, all weighing under 4
pounds. I say hot hot hot…

I know its a pipe dream, but hey, boys gotta dream sometimes right?

I’d love to hear from anyone using the new Macbook Air, what has your
experience been?
