---
layout: post
title: 46 Monument Avenue
---

This summer my wife and I planned a trip to Boston for our best friends
wedding. While getting ready to book a room I came across [an
article](http://techcrunch.com/2010/07/25/fawlty-logic/) about
[airbnb.com](http://airbnb.com), so I decided to give it a try. The
first 3 attempts to get a room failed, but each time airbnb sent me a
better coupon so I kept trying. The fourth attempt got me [46 Monument
Avenue](http://www.airbnb.com/rooms/45987), and it was the best purchase
I’ve made in a year.

For a very reasonable price (\$100 per night) we got a cute studio
apartment with a private patio, in Charlestown, just a short distance
from the North Side.

The host, Atef Aziz, emailed us before arrival to find out more about
us. He was helpful enough to get us into the room at 10am on our
check-in day, rather than having to wait until 3 or 4pm (like most
hotels). He was eager to help in any way, from walking or driving
directions, to restaurant recommendations.

The apartment is adorable, a studio apartment with a nice large bathroom
and stand-up shower. It had a functional kitchen (larger than our
kitchen at home), washer/dryer, tv with basic channels, wi-fi internet,
and an amazing little patio. The patio has a fountain with gold fish, a
table with umbrella and chairs, a charcoal grill (the only way to
grill), and lots of flowers and fauna. The apartment was only a 10
minute walk to the North Side of Boston and an 8 minute walk to the T
(orange line). 

The shower was initially not as hot as I like my showers, but a quick
email to Atef got that fixed. The apartment was small, but open, and the
kitchen entirely usable. The first night it was a bit warm, so I
mentioned it to Atef and he got us a fan, which fixed the problem. The
patio was perfect for relaxing in the morning, hanging out during the
day, and winding down at night.

I can’t recommend [46 Monument
Avenue](http://www.airbnb.com/rooms/45987) and Atef Aziz enough. From
his hospitality to the beautifully furnished accommodations, this stay
in Boston was a delight.

[See more about his rental here.](http://www.46monumentavenue.com/)
