---
layout: post
title: Hey mom, I got a job!
---

How a butler was born.

Well folks, 2010 has been quite a year. Three of my close friends got
married, my lil’sis is getting married next month, my best friend is
having a baby, and I have decided to leave
[SabreTech](http://sabretechllc.com) and take a job at
[OrderedList](http://orderedlist.com).

Woh! Wait a second Jon, aren’t you part owner in
[SabreTech](http://sabretechllc.com)? Indeed I am, but with the news of
my departure my business partners have decided to buy me out.

So how did I get to where I’m at now?

First I’d like to take a quick look back. I bought
[SabreTech](http://sabretechllc.com) in 2005 with Brad Cochran and
together we turned it into a profitable and growing business. In 2007
Sam Sallows joined the team and we made him a partner in a little over a
year. SabreTech has been growing since we bought it, but the addition of
Sam really made things go crazy. SabreTech has grown 400% in 5 years and
the rate of growth is increasing.

After my wife and I moved to Indiana in 2007 with the hopes of expanding
SabreTech, it quickly became apparent that the economy in Elkhart
couldn’t support a second store. To make up for my down time in Indiana
I started to really apply myself at software development, learning
everything I could. That love of programming took me to a [little
group](http://groups.google.com/group/southbendrb?pli=1) that met
monthly at Notre Dame to talk about programming (specifically about
using Ruby and Rails). At that meeting I met [Steve
Smith](http://orderedlist.com/who-we-are/#steve) and[John
Nunemaker](http://orderedlist.com/who-we-are/#john).

Steve had left Notre Dame to start [OrderedList](http://orderedlist.com)
and shortly after I met them John left Notre Dame to join Steve. Over
the past couple of years we started to hang out more during work hours
(meeting in coffee shops and eventually at their office) and after hours
(Notre Dame tailgates, the Super Bowl).

Apparently John and Steve saw something in me that they liked, because
they offered me a job, and yesterday my wife and I decided to take it.

That brings us to today, two weeks and one day before my last day of
work at SabreTech. I start at [OrderedList](http://orderedlist.com) on
December 6th! I’ll be handling customer support for their product
[Harmony](http://harmonyapp.com), as well as programming on various
projects from [SpeakerDeck](http://speakerdeck.com) to client work.

This will be the first time in 10 years that I haven’t been a business
owner and have an actual boss (already practicing my “yes boss”). I’m
sure it will be an adjustment, but I honestly look forward to having
less stress, better hours, and a 20 minute commute (as opposed to 90).

I’m crazy excited to be working with Steve and John, they are two of the
smartest people I know, and both love to teach and push their peers to
the limit. I’m going to be in an environment where constantly learning
new things is a necessity, not just an aspiration.

So yeah, mom, I went and got a job ;)

**<span class="caps">UPDATE</span>:** [Read the announcement over on the
OrderedList
blog](http://orderedlist.com/our-writing/blog/articles/welcome-jon-hoyt/).
