---
layout: post
title: SXSW, My Biggest Mistake
---

This was my first SXSW Interactive and while the people, parties, and
talks were amazing, I feel like I made one huge mistake the entire
conference.

I went to <span class="caps">SXSW</span> to meet you, to build a
relationship and learn from you, and hopefully teach you something as
well.

I realize this now in hindsight. Here is what I did at <span
class="caps">SXSW</span> 2011 that makes this so clear now. Being new to
the industry and meeting all of you I felt a bit insecure so I tried to
“sell” a bigger more awesome me. My biggest mistake was trying to
impress when you sincerely asked me what I did.

You were taking the time to get to know me and I tried to impress by
talking about client work we’ve done that we’re proud of, rather than
telling you about our products [Harmony](http://get.harmonyapp.com) and
[Gaug.es](http://gaug.es) which we’re passionate about and trying to
grow. I wasn’t confident enough in our own products to tell you about
them first, show you the passion we have for them, and get you excited
about them.

I’m not talking about a hard sell, the pushy please just get out of my
face sell. I’m talking about sharing the vision our team has, that we
share with each other in the office, and that we hope you will one day
share.

Going forward I want to be real with you, telling you what we’re excited
about right now, and not try to impress you with what we’ve done in the
past.

Next time we see each other, ask me what I do.
