---
layout: post
title: ATT Blames Apple
---

Like many people around the world today I received my iPhone 4S in the
mail and was unable to activate it. I have a theory as to why.

### The Setup

I pre-ordered a black iPhone 4S for myself and a white one for my wife,
at about 9am <span class="caps">EST</span> the morning pre-orders were
open. Today the phones arrived at about 2pm <span
class="caps">EST</span> and I set about getting them activated, restored
from backups, and ready to use.

Activation turned out to be a nightmare. Unable to activate the phone
via iTunes, or right from the phone itself on wifi or 3G, I finally
called <span class="caps">ATT</span> and was helped by Kathy, an
extremely nice and courteous customer service agent. She explained that
pre-ordered phones were causing a lot of problems today, but that she
should be able to help me.

She was able to activate the <span class="caps">ICCID</span> and <span
class="caps">IMEI</span> numbers for both phones on our account and we
were able to get my black iPhone 4S activated by doing the activation
dance via 3G, after it had failed again on iTunes and wifi.

I mistakenly assumed that would be the trick for the white iPhone 4S so
I thanked Kathy and let her go. But trying to activate by 3G failed and
I noticed that the white iPhone only had one bar of service and no
amount of restarting would fix that (the black iPhone was enjoying a
nice four bars of service). No amount of restarting the white iPhone or
moving around my house or yard would increase the bars.

### Placing Blame

I noticed on Twitter that scores of people who pre-ordered the iPhone
were running into the same issues I ran into. Many of them said they’d
talked to <span class="caps">ATT</span> customer service agents on the
phone and at stores and they had all blamed Apple for the issues.
Finally I decided to drive to my local <span class="caps">ATT</span>
store to see what could be done.

When I arrived at the store Sarah came up to help me and the first thing
she asked was if I had pre-ordered my iPhones. I answered yes and while
she proceeded to try and get the phone to activate she told me that
there wasn’t much she could actually do and I would have to call Apple
because the problem was on their end. She explained that iPhones
purchased at her store had no problems, but phones pre-ordered from
Apple were failing.

At this point the whole situation is really starting to smell fishy.
Every single <span class="caps">ATT</span> customer service person I
talked to, no matter how nice they were and how much they helped, was
giving me the same line, it was Apple’s fault. The only thing I could do
was call Apple, so I did that and took a seat at the <span
class="caps">ATT</span> store.

### Eureka!

After waiting on hold for about seven minutes with Apple another <span
class="caps">ATT</span> rep came over and asked if I needed help. I
explained to Alex the issue I was having and he asked if he could see
the white iPhone. After giving it to him he walked over to his computer,
plugged the phone in, and about two minutes later had the phone
activated and ready to go. He showed me he had also done something that
fixed the bars of service issue and now the phone had four bars of
service.

So the first <span class="caps">ATT</span> rep I talked to today was
helpful, got one of my phones activated via some <span
class="caps">ICCID</span>, <span class="caps">IMEI</span>, and
activating over 3G magic, and basically told me that phones not
purchased thru <span class="caps">ATT</span> were causing issues.

The second <span class="caps">ATT</span> rep I talked to said there
wasn’t anything they could do and that I needed to call Apple because
the problem was on their end.

The third <span class="caps">ATT</span> rep I talked to was able to
activate the white iPhone in just over two minutes by plugging the phone
into his terminal and he told me that I should come to the <span
class="caps">ATT</span> store in the future to buy my iPhones and avoid
any activation issues.

### The Conspiracy

From what I could tell today, activations thru iTunes or via wifi were
completely borked, while activations via 3G (if the phone had good
service) or at an <span class="caps">ATT</span> store worked just fine
once the <span class="caps">ICCID</span> and <span
class="caps">IMEI</span> numbers were configured in the system.

I think, and this is just a theory, that <span class="caps">ATT</span>
limited activations coming thru Apple servers to their servers, giving
<span class="caps">ATT</span> stores activation priority.

This way they look like customer service heroes and Apple looks like
they dropped the ball.

This is pretty far fetched I know, but I wouldn’t put it past them.
Regardless, everyone I talked to at <span class="caps">ATT</span> was
repeating the same mantra, its Apple’s fault. The fact that the message
was universal makes me think that they were told to say it.

So who actually wins in this whole thing? No one! <span
class="caps">ATT</span> thinks they are winning by smearing Apple, but
ultimately any bad experience with an iPhone on <span
class="caps">ATT</span> makes a customer less willing to use the iPhone
on <span class="caps">ATT</span> in the future. The consumer certainly
doesn’t win, how many hours of lost productivity were there today for
people who went thru the same thing I experienced?

The whole thing stinks in my opinion. What do you think?
