---
layout: post
title: Mentors
---

We need more mentors. Mentors help us avoid mistakes and give us
guidance on how to be better at our jobs and at life.

### My Mentors

The first eight months of my new job at [Ordered
List](http://orderedlist.com) I paired with my coworker
[Brandon](http://twitter.com/bkeepers) three or four days a week. We
kept each other on task, but most important for me, he started teaching
me the process of writing beautiful and maintainable code. He had years
of experience in this industry and a passion for elegant solutions that
I didn’t have, but I could learn from him.

While we aren’t pairing as often now, Brandon and I have built a level
of trust that enables us to quickly and easily share ideas and continue
to educate each other and make better software.

In the last couple months my coworker/boss
[John](http://twitter.com/jnunemaker) has been mentoring me. We meet
once a week, either over breakfast, lunch, or just a hot chocolate, and
have a nice long chat. We usually cover things we’ve been thinking about
the past week, what to focus on in the next week or month, personal
goals, even our personal lives. This too has been invaluable for me.

### Why Mentors Matter

In my time with both Brandon and John I’ve been able to get someone
else’s perspective on how I’m progressing as both a programmer and a
person. Looking back I’m completely shocked by how much I’ve changed for
the better thanks to them taking the time to care about me and give me
feedback that I can act on.

By listening to their advice, which has years of experience and thought
behind it, I am able to set a better course for my own life. A good
mentor shares what has worked and what has not.

### Finding A Mentor

If you have the opportunity to be mentored right now, by someone you
respect, seize it. Good mentors are few and far between in my
experience. In my current situation I didn’t have to go seeking a
mentor, they came to me and offered to help.

In the past I have had to seek out mentors. I wouldn’t be working at
Ordered List if I hadn’t reached out four years ago, initially seeking
like minded geeks, but eventually finding
[Steve](http://twitter.com/orderedlist) and
[John](http://twitter.com/jnunemaker) and growing to respect them, so
much so that I took advantage of every opportunity to hang out and learn
from them.

### Final Thoughts

While having a good mentor can be uplifting, constructive, and life
changing, likewise a bad mentor can tear you down. Be careful entering a
mentoring relationship to ensure the mentor is someone you have at least
some level of trust and respect for. If you leave a meeting challenged
and excited, things are probably on the right track. If you leave a
meeting discouraged and ready to quit, examine whether its your attitude
that is the problem or whether you can’t trust and respect your mentor
enough to learn.

One on one time with your mentor is essential, so put it on the calendar
and stick to it. If you aren’t serious enough to make the meeting happen
then figure out why you are resistant and fix it. John and I have to
reschedule a meeting every so often, but we try to avoid canceling.

Finally I would just like to encourage you to mentor someone yourself,
if you are ready. I am not mentoring anyone at the moment, but I have in
the past and I will in the future.

We need more mentors.
