---
layout: post
title: Just Write It Down
---

I struggle with remembering great ideas, not so great ideas, things I
want to accomplish, and so much more. Lets talk about the easiest way to
hack our lives so we can be more productive.

If you find yourself struggling to remember conversations, epiphanies,
and just “what should I do next” then you may be struggling with the
same thing I am, a lousy memory.

For years I’ve told people my memory is horrible, but for some reason I
never actually took action to rectify the situation! Maybe I was lying
to myself and saying “oh, you’ll remember that” or maybe I never made
the connection that my memory will never get better without being
proactive.

Today that is changing. Actually, this pattern of figuring things out
and then forgetting the solution has been going away slowly yet surely
for me for a few months now. How you ask?

My coworker John ([@jnunemaker](http://twitter.com/jnunemaker)) has been
encouraging me since I started working with him to write things down.
Keep a small notebook with you at all times, record important points
from conversations, ideas you have in the middle of doing other things,
any little piece of information that might actually be useful in the
future.

Apparently I’m a slow learner as it has taken months to get into the
habit of writing things down, but now I’m seeing real improvements in my
memory. I don’t even have to read over all of the notes I’ve taken to
remember things sometimes. Just the act of writing it down in the first
place is helping me create long term storage for that information in my
brain.

I’m working on a lot of little processes in my life to improve my
productivity, both at work and at home. Remembering things has been a
great first step and I’ve been blessed by the results.
