---
layout: post
title: Share the Dream
---

Sharing in the vision and energy of your team is a key factor to success
and happiness at work.

### Putting Your Dreams On Hold

When I started at OrderedList there was [one
product](http://speakerdeck.com) I was really passionate about because I
had done most of the work on it. I quickly realized though that I needed
to put that passion on hold, or better said, redirect it towards
[Harmony](http://harmonyapp.com), so that I could help push the vision
of my team forward. I needed to share their dreams and hopefully
incorporate mine at some point.

As soon as I dug into [Harmony](http://harmonyapp.com), fixing weak
spots in the test suite, spearheading the move to Rails 3, working on a
new feature (**that I’m dying to tell you about**), my heart began to
change, my passion became their passion, and I was happy again and part
of the team.

### Sharing The Energy

Almost as soon as I really started getting passionate about
[Harmony](http://harmonyapp.com) John came home from sick leave and had
this crazy idea to build a [web analytics service](http://gaug.es),
which we now call [Gauges](http://gaug.es). At first all I could think
was, **boring**, but hanging around Steve, John, and Brandon I started
to catch the buzz, the energy, and the excitement!

This is when I began to realize that I didn’t necessarily have to put my
dreams on hold, I just needed to share in my teams excitement and get
them excited about what I’m excited about by letting them see my own
energy.

Every team is different, but letting your coworkers see your excitement
and passion about a product/project and sharing in their dreams at the
same time is one easy way to stay happy at work and be excited to go to
the office every day.
