---
layout: post
title: Priorities
---

Balancing your home and work life can be terribly difficult, especially
when you love your job.

### Shut It Off

Last night my wife and I went on a date, first out to dinner and then to
grab a movie to watch at home. Once back home she was getting ready to
watch the movie while I popped the dvd in and queued it up.

I popped open my laptop and noticed our work chat had been blowing up
and instantly got sucked in. My coworkers were hacking on
[Gaug.es](http://gaug.es) and doing some awesome stuff with async and
EventMachine and I immediately wanted to be a part of it.

Instead I closed my laptop just in time to see my wife coming into the
living room ready to watch the movie. This wasn’t an easy decision, but
it was the right decision, one I haven’t made hundreds of times in the
past, to the detriment of our relationship.

Spending time with your loved ones (in my case my wife and dogs) must
take priority over your work life. What kind of message do you send to
them if you always leave that laptop open? Not that you are dedicated,
or that you are providing for them, you are sending the message that you
care more about work than you care about them. They don’t get over this
easily, trust me.

I’m not saying you can’t work at home or in the evenings, I’m saying
that its important to set aside and dedicate **the majority** of your
home life to spending time with and sharing your life with those you
love.

### Dream At Home

One of the reasons it has been so easy for me to make the wrong decision
in the past, to work late every night, is that I love my work, I’m
excited about it, and often that excitement feels greater than anything
I’m excited about at home.

It has been important for my wife and I to find things that we’re both
excited about, which in our case is food and travel, and spend time
talking about or doing those things every day. We spend anywhere from
one to three hours in the kitchen every night, cooking, sharing stories
from our day, [sharing our
dreams](http://orderedlist.com/blog/articles/share-the-dream/) and just
being best friends. No computers (except to play some music), no
hacking, just spending quality time together enjoying each others
company.

### Exceptions to the Rule

Having said all that, I still choose to work late two or three evenings
every week. I feel like (and my wife agrees) that it is hard to get
ahead in life, hard to take things to the next level, if you don’t kick
it up a notch every once in awhile.

My wife and I don’t plan on living in Elkhart Indiana the rest of our
lives, we dream of moving to Italy, so we feel like burning the midnight
oil a couple nights a week to make that dream happen sooner is totally
worth it.

The last thing I would caution on working at home is that you prepare
for it, warn those who may depend on you so they can plan accordingly. I
also try and pitch in a little extra effort that day, making sure chores
are done, whatever I can do so she doesn’t feel like she’s on her own.

P.S. I had no idea it was the [National Day of
Unplugging](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/04/national-day-of-unplugging_n_831176.html)
when I wrote this.
