---
layout: post
title: The Smoker - Back Story and First Day
---

I've been planning on building a 55 gallon smoker for almost a year and
a half now, but the time and resources just haven't been there. Today
marked the first day of real progress!

It all started when this [blog
post](http://jmillerid.com/wordpress/2009/12/55-gallon-drum-smoker/)
appeared a year and a half ago. I saw it and I immediately fell in love.
I’d only been smoking for a few months at that point, with a \$35
Brinkman, but I’d already developed a passion for good <span
class="caps">BBQ</span>.

In the spring of 2010 I jumped on Craigslist and found a couple of
barrels only 2 miles from my house, and immediately bought them. But
then, as often happens to me, I set the dream of building it aside
because of fear of starting and my many excuses like lack of tools, lack
of time, etc.

But the dream persisted, and when I found out my parents would be
returning from Argentina for a few months this summer I decided to
enlist my dad’s help and get this thing rockin!

A week ago we set today as the day to begin, which left me just a few
days to prepare. Preparation meant getting a jigsaw, a welder, and this
[curve
pattern](http://jmillerid.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/intersecting_curve2.jpg)
printed to scale. I decided the building would need to be broken into
phases, for financial and time reasons, so this first day I limited to
just needing the jigsaw and curve pattern.

Buying a jigsaw, easy. Printing a 70" curve, not as easy :/

The story of acquiring the curve requires some back story. Again, I’ve
been planning on building this thing for a over a year, so I actually
started searching out a plotter to print it a year ago. At the time I
worked at [SabreTech](http://sabretechllc.com) and we had quite a few
industrial clients with printers, but I never managed to find the right
place to get it done.

One day seven or eight months ago while visiting my college friend Bob
at his workplace [Daavlin](http://daavlin.com) (also one of our best
clients) I noticed they had a plotter. Bob proceeded to explain that
they’d just acquired it, but hadn’t figured out way to hook it up yet
(older interface that none of their computers had). I offered to help (I
think) in exchange for printing the curve, but he said he’d get it
running and told me he’d print the curve anyways.

Fast forward to yesterday morning (seven+ months later). I left for work
thinking that I’d need to find a way to print that curve. I got halfway
to work and realized I’d forgotten my lunch, so I turned around and went
back home. As I pulled in the driveway I noticed a package on the front
step. I grabbed it, ran inside, cut open the package, and low and behold
there was my curve printed to scale! Somehow Bob managed to time
printing and sending it to me so perfectly that it arrived the day I was
going to print it myself. Awesome.

So today I went and grabbed a jigsaw, some blades for cutting metal, and
dad and I got to work this evening. We focused just on the cutting
phase, and knocked it out in short order! [Here are some
pics](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jonmagic/sets/72157626583429183/show/)
for your enjoyment :) Sorry, forgot to wear a shirt in a few :/
