---
layout: post
title: Finish Weekend
---

While I initially had issues with the concept of Finish Weekend, I'm
really glad I participated and believe everyone involved is better off
for it.

### The Who

My friends at [Collective Idea](http://collectiveidea.com) have
apparently been talking about doing a [Finish
Weekend](http://finishweekend.com) for a few years and this is the year
they made it happen! They put out the word thru Twitter, friends,
collegues, and a ton of people signed up and showed up!

I met folks from Detroit, Chicago, South Bend, and even as far away as
California! There were programmers, designers, editors, math geeks,
marketers, and testers just to name a few.

### The Why

Finish Weekend was born out of a personal and professional frustration
with starting things and never finishing them. What if there was a
weekend dedicated to taking something you’ve started, never found time
to finish, and actually finish it. Even better, what if there were
people around to help you finish it!

Many folks showed up with projects to finish, but what really surprised
me were how many people showed up to help other people finish! This
brings us to my issue with finish weekend.

### My Issue

When first told about Finish Weekend immediately I reacted negatively
because I believe we should be working hard to finish things every day.
I love finishing things. Finishing projects is hard (that last 5% can be
excruciating) but the joy you get from shipping feature X, or
accomplishing goal Y, is greater than the joy I personally get from
starting a project (as much fun as that is).

When I finally got over myself and realized that Collective Idea was
trying to help people learn how to finish things I signed up and made
the trek to Holland Michigan. I did not regret it.

### The Outcome

Today I saw a great group of people with greatly varying skillsets and
backgrounds come together with one purpose, to finish things. We had
people building video based web apps, crazy poetry recombinators, iPhone
apps, and even a bond trader learning Python to automate a process that
has taken him 1.5 hours every work evening for the last two years in
Excel.

I was able to teach basic programming concepts, performance measuring
and optimization, even cut up a mockup into html/css, and paired with my
coworker on some tech that will hopefully help power our products into
the future.

Collective Idea nailed it with Finish Weekend and my hope and desire is
that we take the relationships and spirit of pitching in together to
accomplish big and small things and carry it into the rest of our lives
and not relegate it to a weekend.

Of course we’ll need reminded every so often. See you at the next Finish
Weekend :)

### Links

-   Learn more about Finish Weekend at
    [finishweekend.com](http://finishweekend.com)
-   Learn more about the great folks at Collective Idea at
    [collectiveidea.com](http://collectiveidea.com)

