---
layout: post
title: GitHubber
---

Today the whole crew from Ordered List joins GitHub!

### Ordered List

Last year was a [big year for
myself](/blog/archives/2010/11/18/hey-mom-i-got-a-job/) and [Ordered
List](http://orderedlist.com). [Steve](https://twitter.com/orderedlist)
and [John](https://twitter.com/jnunemaker) launched
[Harmony](http://get.harmonyapp.com) in August, I started hanging out
with them on a regular basis and [began
work](/blog/archives/2011/10/03/the-history-of-speaker-deck/) on
[Speaker Deck](http://speakerdeck.com), and the end of the year saw
[Brandon Keepers](http://opensoul.org) and I leaving our
[own](http://collectiveidea.com) [businesses](http://sabretechllc.com)
to make OL [four strong](http://orderedlist.com/blog/articles/four/).

This year was even bigger, launching [Gauges](http://get.gaug.es) and
[Speaker Deck](/blog/archives/2011/10/10/launching-speaker-deck/),
adding [Matt
Graham](http://orderedlist.com/blog/articles/welcome-matt-graham/) to
the team, and beginning the journey of learning
[how](/blog/archives/2011/03/02/new-guy-blues/) to
[work](/blog/archives/2011/03/03/share-the-dream/) as a [cohesive
unit](/blog/archives/2011/11/29/how-we-work/). While we learned each
others strengths and weaknesses I began my own
[journey](/blog/archives/2011/10/20/mentors/) of becoming a full-time
programmer that could not only contribute to the growth of our company,
but also lead in certain circumstances.

We all dreamed of taking over the world, and we knew we could do it
together. We also know it takes time to build something great and that
as time goes on new opportunities present themselves. Every once in
awhile those opportunities get you even more excited than the dream you
are currently living. One year (minus a day) after I joined Ordered List
our entire team has accepted the opportunity to join
[GitHub](http://github.com).

### GitHub

[This company](https://github.com/about#company_description) and the
[team behind it](https://github.com/about#the_team) has been near and
dear to our hearts for years. I had the chance to meet and hang out with
a [few](http://zachholman.com/)
[GitHubbers](http://timclem.wordpress.com/)
[over](http://twitter.com/mtodd) the last year and have really come to
appreciate them as [programmers](http://twitter.com/mtodd),
[professionals](http://tom.preston-werner.com/2011/03/29/ten-lessons-from-githubs-first-year.html),
[writers](http://zachholman.com/posts/customer-support-doesnt-have-to-suck/),
and people. When they started
[talking](http://speakerdeck.com/u/holman/p/how-github-uses-github-to-build-github)
[about](http://speakerdeck.com/u/schacon/p/robots-beer-and-maslow) their
[culture](http://speakerdeck.com/u/mojombo/p/optimizing-for-happiness)
at conferences I marveled even more, excited about how they were
[changing the
rules](http://speakerdeck.com/u/schacon/p/robots-beer-and-maslow?slide=79),
hiring [tons of awesome
people](http://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=site:github.com/blog+is+a+GitHubber&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8),
and just [kicking-butt](https://github.com/blog/936-one-million).

When the opportunity to join GitHub materialized it sparked an epic
discussion about the possibilities. It made sense in so many ways, but
whenever you entertain the chance to change course you can’t help but
wonder how far you can get on your current trajectory. There were a lot
of factors to consider and in the end Steve and John decided that our
personal and collective futures with GitHub seemed greater.

Over the past few weeks the details were hammered out and during that
time we’ve each had a chance to reset our dreams for the future, while
trying to
[keep](http://twitter.com/michigangraham/status/142695650084139008)
[the](http://twitter.com/holman/status/142696256022659072)
[whole](http://twitter.com/michigangraham/status/143443710292672512)
[thing](http://twitter.com/holman/status/143444127403618304) a secret.

### The Future

Right now I have no idea what the future holds, except that it is going
to be great. I am most excited about the journey, learning new things,
powering thru the hard times, accelerating during the good times, and
building something that we can all be proud of.

Thanks again to everyone involved in making this a reality. Watch out
world.

### Links

-   [Ordered List is a
    GitHubber](https://github.com/blog/993-ordered-list-is-a-githubber)
-   [Jonathan Hoyt is a
    GitHubber](https://github.com/blog/996-jonathan-hoyt-is-a-githubber)

