---
layout: post
title: SWOT Analysis
---

In college I learned how to do a [SWOT
analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SWOT_analysis) and I've been
using it in one form or another at work and in my personal life ever
since.

**Update 5-19-2015:** The authors of [this amazing <span
class="caps">SWOT</span>
guide](http://formswift.com/swot-analysis-guide) reached out to me to
let me know about their work. After reading my simple how to below
[check out their full guide](http://formswift.com/swot-analysis-guide)
to learn even more.

So why do I care about my strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and
threats? Because I’m ambitious (both a strength and a weakness) and I
constantly want to be better at everything I do and I want everything
I’m a part of to constantly be improving.

How do I identify and analyze these areas with regard to my personal
life or work life? I choose what I want to analyze (myself, a friend
asking for feedback, an area of my job) and then sit down with a pen and
paper.

I start by draw by drawing a vertical line down the center of the page
and then a horizontal line across the page. I now have four quadrants
and I label them S, W, O, and T.

Next I write down weaknesses and then strengths in their quadrants. You
probably won’t be sharing this analysis with anyone so be brutally
honest. Depending on your disposition you may find it easier to write
down weaknesses than strengths, or vice versa. With time you’ll get
better at identifying both if you practice consistently.

Once I have an understanding of strengths and weaknesses it is usually
pretty easy to identify opportunities that capitalize on strengths and
work to turn weaknesses into strengths. Likewise threats are anything
that could turn a strength into a weakness or further entrench an
existing weakness.

Now you have to decide what action to take based on the opportunities
and threats. After repeating this process a few times you start to see
patterns and improve your process even more. Here’s an analysis I did on
myself a few months back with regard to my work life.

I noticed after this analysis that my first opportunity, “listen more”,
was the most important thing to act on because it addressed several of
my weaknesses while building on my strengths and lessened at least one
threat. This is one pattern I look for now, opportunities that apply to
multiple concerns.

Try a <span class="caps">SWOT</span> Analysis next time you want to
level up.
