---
layout: post
title: Intention vs Perception
---

It is interesting to study the gap between the intention of
communication and the perception of communication in the context of
leadership. "We're going to do X going forward" can be interpreted as
"You're doing a crappy job at Y so we're going to try X now" or "We
decided that it is better to do X instead of Y because we had a meeting
you weren't invited to since we don't really value your opinion" and the
list of interpretations goes on.

In my experience perception rarely matches intention, so figuring out
how to change your message to get across what you actually intended is a
fun challenge.

There are probably many ways to do it successfully, but I only have
experience with a few so I’ll share those ([<span
class="caps">YMMV</span>](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=ymmv)).

### Earn the trust of those impacted

Earning trust takes time. Time spent learning about someone, how to
communicate with them, what they are passionate about, understanding
their fears.

I like to take people out to lunch, video chat, pair program on a code
kata, or help with a problem they are having.

This is the first opportunity to be a servant leader I think. Serve the
people you lead and, more likely than not, you will gain their respect
and trust.

### Give ownership

When someone is going to change the way I work, what I’m working on, or
who I’m working with, the psychological toll of that change can be
greatly reduced if I feel like I have control over my own destiny.

I look forward to working with leaders that engage me and get me
involved in the decision-making process. They ask things like “What do
you think about doing X instead of Y; what would be the benefits and
what would be the drawbacks?”

Asking for, listening, and reacting to my feedback gives me ownership of
an idea, even if it was not my own. Reacting is not necessarily
implementing my feedback, but this process of involvement changes the
way the idea was communicated and perceived.

### Avoid surprises

There is a bonus to talking one-on-one with everyone on a team about an
idea before announcing it at a meeting or in an email. You avoid
surprises. Turns out not many people enjoy surprises, unless it’s a
surprise party.

Having an opportunity to hear and discuss an idea before it is executed
gives me time to get comfortable with it. If you have gained my trust
then I also feel like I have time to provide feedback before the idea
becomes reality.
