---
layout: post
title: Deliberate Iteration
---

I've never been good at New Years resolutions but this year has been
different. Starting the year I decided to iterate on life in a much more
deliberate way. Here are the results.

### Writing

I’m starting to understand how important it is to measure iterations in
order to continously improve, instead of just changing things for the
sake of change. Writing things down is the best way I have found to to
measure change.

I’m on my sixth notebook for the year. I write notes when I get up in
the morning, when I’m in meetings, when I handle email, when I’m
reading, all throughout the day really.

When I sense change I can look back at my notes and see the evolution of
an idea. After testing change to see if the results are better than
previous results I can identify patterns in the ideas I wrote down and
repeat them or discard them.

### Scheduling

A few weeks ago I started using a calendar, like for real.

(the first one is what my calendar looked like before I started using it
consistently)

The results have been dramatic. My work and life balance feels better
than ever, I don’t feel like I’m dropping the ball anymore, and I rarely
have to spend time thinking about what to do next.

Before I only used to schedule meetings, dates I had to be at. This
barely worked, I would sometimes miss meetings, or I would get anxious
because I would suddenly have the feeling I had missed a meeting (even
though I hadn’t).

Now every Sunday evening I schedule the upcoming week, from 8am to 5pm
every day (+-1 hour). I use [Calendars
5](http://readdle.com/products/calendars5/) on my iPhone and it buzzes
me 10 minutes before my next scheduled thing and I use
[Fantastical](https://flexibits.com/fantastical) on the desktop.

I have trained my brain to rely on the technology, by using it
consistently. My error rates and anxious moments have been reduced to
almost zero.

I’m getting more done at work, I’m exercising more, and I’m spending
more time relaxing. What am I spending less time doing? Spinning my
wheels because I’m not sure what to do next.

### Meetings

A lot of people have a visceral reaction to the word “meeting”. I used
to but I don’t anymore. Every day I set aside time to meet with people.
These meetings range from standups to work lunches to video calls to
catch up with remote coworkers.

As our company has grown I’ve come to realize how important it is to be
deliberate about spending time with people and not just shipping code.
Without connecting it is easy to quickly become lost.

Every week I do at least one working lunch, I spend at least one hour on
a video conference with a remote coworker, and I attend at least one
planning meeting (whether it’s for my team or a team we interact with).

Staying connected to coworkers has improved my mental health 10X as well
as improving my value to the company by being able to connect people and
ideas.

### Conclusion

Figure out how you are spending your time (maybe write it down?) and
then look for things to change. Try using tools and doing things you
think suck (calendars and meetings oh my!). Measure the results. Do it
all over again.

### Other notes:

-   Writing things down is [a lesson I have learned
    before](http://theprogrammingbutler.com/blog/archives/2011/10/03/just-write-it-down/)
    and forgotten. Why is it that good habits are so much harder to
    practice than bad ones?
-   I’m writing this during my scheduled time off today :)
-   I’m also deliberate about meeting with people outside of my
    immediate circle, inside and outside of work.
-   I realize some people will laugh at me for just now starting to use
    a calendar, but I think I’ve just now grown out of my 20’s “I enjoy
    chaos more than order” lifestyle.

